=======================
Contribution Guidelines
=======================

In these Contribution Guidelines, you will find documented policies for
developing with Monasca. This includes the processes we use for blueprints and
specs, bugs, and other procedural items.

Monasca, as with all OpenStack projects, is written with the following
design guidelines in mind:

* **Component-based architecture**: Quickly add new behaviors.
* **Highly available**: Scale to very serious workloads.
* **Fault tolerant**: Isolated processes avoid cascading failures.
* **Recoverable**: Failures should be easy to diagnose, debug, and rectify.
* **Open standards**: Be a reference implementation for a community-driven API.

Workflow
~~~~~~~~

Our process is meant for users, developers, and operators who express their
desire for new features using stories in StoryBoard. The workflow is very
simple:

* If something is clearly broken, submit a `bug report`_ in StoryBoard.
* If you want to change or add a feature, submit a `story`_ in StoryBoard.
* Monasca core reviewers may request that you submit a `specification`_ to
  Gerrit to elaborate on the feature request.
* Significant features require `release notes`_ to be included when the code is
  merged.

.. _bug report:

Bug Reports
-----------

Current bugs can be found in this `Worklist
<https://storyboard.openstack.org/#!/worklist/213>`_.

When filing a bug, please remember to add the *bug* tag to the story. Please
describe the problem and how to replicate it, suggest how to fix it, and
recommend a bug priority.

.. _story:

Stories
-------

New features can be proposed in `StoryBoard
<https://storyboard.openstack.org/#!/project_group/59>`_ as new story.

The initial story needs to primarily express the intent of the idea with enough
details to be evaluated for compatibility with the project mission and whether
or not the change requires a `specification`_. It is *not* expected to contain
all implementation details. If the feature is very simple and easy to understand
for the team, a simple description is sufficient. The story is then used to
track all related code reviews. Team members will request more information as
needed.

.. _specification:

Specifications
--------------

A specification has the following purpose:

* Provide a review tool for collaborating on feedback and reviews for complex
  features.
* Collect team priorities.
* Serve as the basis for documenting the feature once implemented.
* Ensure that the overall impact on the system is considered.

We collect specifications in `monasca-specs
<https://github.com/openstack/monasca-specs>`_ repository.

.. _release notes:

Release Notes
-------------

Release notes for a patch should be included in the patch. If not, the
release notes should be submitted as a follow-on review.

If any of the following applies to a patch, release notes are mandatory:

* The deployer needs to perform an action when upgrading.
* A new feature is implemented.
* An API function was removed or changed.
* The current behavior is changed.
* A new configuration option is added. The deployer should consider to change
  the default configuration.
* A security bug is fixed.
* The change may break previous versions of the client library(ies).
* Requirement changes are introduced for important libraries like oslo, six
  requests, etc.
* The deprecation period starts or code is purged.

Release notes are suggested if a long-standing or important bug is fixed.
Otherwise, release notes are not required.

Developer Reference
-------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   code

Changelog
---------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   history

This documentation is generated by the Sphinx toolkit and lives in the source
tree. Additional documentation on Monasca and other components of OpenStack can
be found on the `OpenStack wiki <http://wiki.openstack.org>`_.
